The seuerall practises of Iohane Harrison, and her daughter, condemned and executed at Hartford for Witch-craft, the 4 of August last, 1606.
AT the Assizes held in the beginning of August last in the County of Hartford, in the Kings Maiesties behalfe for Gaole deliuerie, there were by the verdict of the Countrey, Foure onely Offenders found worthy to haue deserued death, of which 2 (as haue béen spoken of, the Mother & the Son) for murther, and one Iohane Harrison, & her daughter for damnable Witch-craft, wrayed time that offences shold come thus prodigious, that the Of-spring borne to be a comfort to the Parents, and the parents as much to be delighted in the Children, should be cause of one anothers vntimely death and fatal ouerthrow.

This I. H. dwelling at Royston in the sayd County of Hartford, of long time hauing béen suspected for witchcraft; now (vpon iust cause) was apprehended, and her house according to the true course of Iustice, being searcht, there was found in a chest of hers, such sufficient instruments, (which she after confest were helpes to her in her practises) that could there haue beene no other proofe nor euidence against her, they only had béen sufficient to iudge her vnworthy of long life. This Chest being opened, there was first taken out by the Officers all the bones due to the Anatomy of man & woman, and vnder them haire of all colours that is customarily worne; in the bottome was found a parchment lapt vp in a compas no bigger than a groat, but being open, was in breadth euery way 2 spans; in ye midst of this

parchment was coloured (in the purest colours) a heart proportionable to the hart of a man; and round about fitting euen to the very brim of the parchment, were coloured in seuerall colours very curiously diuided braunches, on which hung dangling things like ashen keyes, and at the ends of them in some places figured, and others proportioned a mouth, in briefe the whole ioynts and artiers of a man.
This I.H. being vpon her examination, and finding such apparant witnes induct against her of her seuerall fellonies & murthers, neglected not to confesse her vtmost secret therin, that she had power (by the helpe of that parchment, man & womans bones, and man and womans haire) to inflict (by the helpe of her spirits, which she reported to haue 2 attending on her, one for men, another for cattell) in any ioynt, synnow, or place of the body, by only but pricking the point of a néedle in that place of the parchmēt, where in his or her body she would haue them tortured, which torture of hers once begun in them, their paine should continue so restlesse, that a present death had bin more happier, than so lingring a calamity; and those whome she intended to kill had the same in effect. If she gaue a pricke in the middle of ye parchment, where she had placed the heart, which relation of her may certainely be beléeued by the seuerall consequents that she was condemned vpon. First a good countrey Yeoman (a neighbor of hers) & she falling at some words together, he calling her old Hagge, or some such like name of reproofe: She made him this answere, I will say little to thée, but thou shalt féele more from me hereafter. The honest man had scarse béen departed from her halfe an houre, but hée felt himselfe, as if he had béen set into your scotch-boote, or spanish strappado, or your Morbus Gallicus, was nothing to it, sometimes in a pestiferous heat, at others, a chill cold, but at al times in continual aches, & wracking of his limbs as if the Diuell had set him on his Tentors to make broadcloth of him. In this perplexitie he continued consuming himselfe, not being able neither to goe nor stand, nor Phisicke could helpe him, nor no meanes bee had to ease him.

When one of his neighbors comming in neighborly loue to visit him, he began to open his mind to him, that he perswaded himselfe, by such a one she was bewitched, and hée was as faithfully perswaded, that if he could but haue 2 or 3 good scratches at her face, wherby he might draw blood of her, he should recouer presently, his neighbour aduised him by some wile to send for her home, yet (yt betwéen them both held vnconuenient, for that either suspecting her selfe, or for not being friends she would not come) that in the night following his neighbor would haue this sicke man caried in a chaire, & lodged in his house, and in the morning his wife, (who he knew she was good friends withal) should by some wile or another draw her theher, wha if he of himself were not strōg inough to scratch her, he (as he held charily) wold help him. This the next morning was done accordingly, the Witch comes, & is well scratcht, vpon which within 3 or 4 daies (as fast as the man could recouer strength) he is vp, & goes abroad; which this A.H. perceiuing, arrests him & by a triall in law for this battry had 5  damages, and her costs of suit giuen her, the man (according as he was condemnd) paid her, which no sooner by her receiued, but ye honest man fell into his former passion, languishing a while & died: in the same maner she serued another, who méeting her out of the towne in a lane, tooke the like reuenge vpon her, & recouered. Both which blowne ouer (only a little murmurd against by a neighbor of hers) a yong woman being washing clothes in an outer rowme next ye street where in a wanscot cradle her child lay a kéep; when this A.H. daughter chanced to come by iust in the instant as she was throwing out a little wrinsing water, and by chaunce some of which vnawares sprinkled vpon her, which ye wench séeming mooued at, called to her with these words. Do you throw your water vpon me gossip, before it be long Ile be reuenged for it. The woman (sorry for the offence) had done, followed her busines, & thought no further of it, whē on the suddē (while she was stept but into a next rowm to hāg vp some clothes) the cradle wherein her child lay, was throwne ouer shattered


all to peeces, the child vpon the face whelmed vnder it, & killed. Thus we see the Diuell hath such power on these his damnable seruants, that neither men nor infants are to be pitied by them. Not long after she had all bewitched a wealthy mans daughter in the towne, who hauing a good substantiall Yeoman to her brother, in pitie of his Sisters griefe, rode to Cambridge, and there acquainting a friend of his with his sisters affliction: the scholler told him she was bewitched, yet in regard they two had bene of an ancient friendship, & that himselfe had some acquaintance with his sister, in spight of her Iucubi, her spirits, & the diuell, & al heed help: which according to promise he performed, and by that time her brother was returned, his sister was recouered, in reuenge of (for that her sorcery was crost, & the mayd reduct to helth by her brothers carefulnes) she caused such a plague vpon all his cattell, that they all immediatly perisht, & consumed, not one of that great store he had being left, to be a remembrance of the rest: himselfe shortly after did these, & a number more at her triall were inferd against, onely one more amongst the rest, though but a homely tale, for that it made al the Bench to laugh, Ile record of her, & conclude.

How the Witch serued a Fellow in an Alehouse.
THere was an honest Fellow, and as boone a companion dwelling in Royston, one that loued the pot with the long necke almost aswell as his prayers; for (quoth he) as I know one is medicinable for the soule, I am sure the other's phisick for ye bodie. It was this Fuddle caps chance with 3 or 4 as good Malt-wormes as himselfe, and as sure, where the best lap was to be found, together as 4 Knaues in a payre of cards, to be drinking, where this Witch came in, & stood gloting vpon them. Now this Good-fellow (not enduring to looke vpon a bad face, but his owne, especially when he is Cup-shot) called aloude to her, Doe you heare Witch, looke tother waies, I cānot abide a nose of that fashion, or else turne your face ye wrong side outward, it may look like raw flesh for flyes to blow maggots in. Stil as the

Witch was ready to reply, hee would crosse her with one scuruy Iest, & betwéen euery Iest drinke to her, yet sweare, God dam him, she should starue ere she should haue a drop on't, since the pot was swéet hée'd kéepe it so, for should but her lips once looke into the lid on't, her breath's so strong, & would so stick in the cup, that al the water yt runs by Ware would not wash it out again. At last the witch got so much time to cal to him, Doest thou heare good friend (quoth she?) What sayst thou ill face (quoth he?) Mary I say (quoth she) that thou throwst in thy drink apace, but shall not find it so easie comming out. Nay, as for the comming out (answerd the fellow) I throwd it in aboue, & it shal come out beneath, & then thou shalt haue some of it, if thou wilt, because I am in hope it will poyson thée. Then with this gréeting away goes the Witch in a chafe, & the fellow sits down to follow his drink, but as the end of all drunkards, is either to ming or to sléepe. So out goes this fellow, & drawing his Gentleman Usher against a pale side, finds me a top of his nose a red lump as big as a cherry, & in his belly felt such a rumbling, as if the Tower of Babell had falne about his eares: oh the sight thereof draue his hart to an ague, & his tongue to an alarum and out he cries, the Witch, the Witch, I am vndone, I am vndone: O God, women of Royston, helpe, helpe, the Witch, the Wicth, I am a man spoyld, helpe, I am vndone. At that word help, the Wich, in comes one of his fellowes runs in hast, & asked him what they should helpe, the Witch? Oh (quoth he) to the gallowes, for I am vndone by her. Well, yet out he runs, where for that night she would not be found, but the next morning méeting her in a lane, his pain rather increased, thā lesned, & there fasts his ten cōmandements vpon her, he almost scratcht out her eyes; nay, left her not till he brought her to ye towne, where for this and the rest, she was apprehended, and she and her daughter, with George Dell and his Mother, worthily suffered death the 4 of August.