A Rehearsall both straung and true, of hainous and horrible ac∣tes committed by Elizabeth Stile, Alias Rockingham, Mother Dutten, Mo∣ther Deuell, Mother Margaret, Fower noto∣rious Witches, apprehended at winsore in the Countie of Barks. and at Abbing∣ton arraigned, condemned, and executed, on the 26 daye of Februarie laste Anno. 1579.

Imprinted at London for Edward White at the little North-doore of Paules, at the signe of the Gun, and are there to be sold.



The Reader
AMong the punishe∣mentes whiche the Lorde GOD hath laied vppon vs, for the manifest impie∣tie and carelesse con∣tempt of his woorde, aboundyng in these our desperate daies, the swar∣mes of Mitches, and Inchaunters are not the laste nor the leaste. For that old Serpent Sathan, suffred to be the scourge for our sinns, hath of late yeares, greately multiplyed the broude of them, and muche en∣creased their malice. Whiche prac∣tize, he hath the more easely perfor∣med for that wholesome remedies, prouided for the curing of such can∣kers,

are either neuer awhit, or not rightly applied: For albeeit the Iu∣sticer bee seuere in executyng of the Lawes in that behalfe, yet suche is the foolishe pitie, or slackenes, or doth of the multitude and vnder of∣ficers that thei most commonly are winked at, and so escape vnpuni∣shed, to the dishonour of God, and imminente daunger on hir Ma∣iesties leige people. Nay the fond∣nes and ignorance of many is such, that they succour those Deuilishe Impes, haue recourse to them for the health of themselues or others, and for thinges loste, callyng them by the honorable name of wise wo∣men. Wherin they know not what honour they doe to the deuill. For it is Sathan, that doeth all that pla∣geth with sicknes, that mayneth,

Murdreth, and Robbeth, and at his lust restoreth. The Witche beareth the name, but the deuill dispatcheth the deedes, without him the Witche can contriue no mischief. He with∣out the Witche can woorke treason to muche, to ofte, and to soone. If then by the lawe of the Lord of life, Witches, and Inchaunters, are ac∣compted vnworthy to liue. If by the lawe of this Lande, they are to be done to death, as Traitors to their Prince, and felons in respect of her highnes subiectes, whosoeuer thou be, beware of ayding them, goe not with Saule the reprobate to aske coū∣saile of them, neither for Christiani∣tie sake, seeme to be more slack in a good purpose, then Cicero the Eth∣nique, who plainely aduiseth that Witches Poysoners. &c. are to be
rather shutte vp in prison, and tied with fetters, then moued to amende with counsaile, and perswasi∣ons, only afterwardes suf∣fered to escape where∣by thei may renew their malitious, and treaso∣nable drif∣tes.


1579. Ianuary the 28. daie.

The true examination and Confession of Elizabeth Stile, alias Rockyngham vttered at the Gaile of Readyng, in the Countie of Barke▪ im∣mediately after hir apprehension in the presence of the per∣sons herafter men∣tioned.
ELiazbeth Stile ali. Roc∣kingham, late of Winde∣sore widowe, of the age of lxv. yeres, or there aboute beeyng apprehended at Windsore afore said, and brought personally before the right worshipfull Sir Henry Neuell knight beyng by him examined, and found by manifest and vndeniable proffes of her honest neighbors to be a leude, malitious, and hurtfull woman to the people and inhabitants thereaboutes, was thereupon committed to the common Gaile of Reading, there to remain vntill the next great

Assises, there to bee holden that hir offence might be more straightly sifted, and she the of∣fender to receiue the guerdon due for hir deme∣rites. Whither when she was come, and mo∣ued by the Gailer there named Thomas Rowe to turne hir self to God, from whome she had notoriously fallen, and mildely to beare the pu∣nishmente belongyng to hir deedes passed, and there withall vrged in signe of hir repentaunce, to confesse hir former follies and facts, she see∣med to haue some remorse in conscience, and desired to haue some talke with the saied Tho∣mas Rowe. To whome with one Iohn knight the Counstable Ihon Griffeth an Inholder, and one William Printall being all fower presente she confessed as followeth.

And firste concernyng those persones that practice the damnable arte of Witchecraft, Sorcerie, or Inchauntement of her owne cor∣taine knowledge, and voluntare motion, she vttered to this effect ensuyng.
IN Primis that one father Rosimonde, dwellyng in Farneham Parishe, be∣yng a widower, and also a daughter of his, are both Witches or Inchanters, which Rosimōd she saith hath and can transforme hymself by Diuelishe meanes, into the shape and likenesse of any beaste whatsoeuer he will.

2 Item, that one Mother Dutten dwellyng


within one Hoskins in Cleworthe Parishe, can tell euery ones message, assone as she seeth them approche nere to the place of hir abroade, and further, she keepeth a Spirite or Feende in the likenesse of a Toade, and fedeth the same Feende liyng in a border of greene Hearbes, within her Garden, with blood whiche she cau∣seth to issue from her owne flancke.
[Figure: ]
3 Item, that one Mother Deuell, dwellyng nigh the Ponde in Windesore aforesaied, bee∣yng a verie poore woman, hath a Spirite in the shape of a Blacke Catte, and calleth it Gille▪ whereby she is aided in her Witchcrafte, and she daiely feedeth it with Milke, mingled with her owne bloud.


4 Item, that one Mother Margaret dwel∣lyng in the Almes house at Windesore, goeth with twoo Crouches, dooeth feede a Kitlyng or Feende by her named Ginnie, with croum∣mes of bread and her owne blood.
5 Item, the saied Elizabeth Stile, alias Rockyngham, of her self confesseth that she the same Elizabeth, vntil the tyme of her appre∣hension, kepte a Ratte, beeyng in very deede a

wicked Spirite, namyng it Philip, and that she fedde the same Ratte with bloode, issuyng from her right handwrest, the markes where∣of euidently remaine, and also that she gaue her right side to the Deuill, and so did the residue of the Witches before named.

And thus far for the touchyng the persones afore mentioned in generall, now resteth her declaration of their detestable driftes, and deuises in particuler.
6 Furthermore, she confesseth that when she was apprehended, Mother Margaret came to her and gaue her money, chargyng her in any wise not to detecte their secretes, whiche if she this prisoner did, the saied Mother Margarete threatened that she should be hardly entreated.

7 And moreouer, she saieth that Father Ro∣simōd, with his daughter, mother Dutten, mo∣ther Deuell, Mother Margaret, and her self the said Elizabeth Rockingham, did accustome to meete within the backeside of Maister Dod∣ges in the Pittes there, and did in that place conclude vpon hainous, and vilanous practises, suche as by them, or any of them before had bin deuised, or determined.

8 Also she saieth, and confesseth that thei all purposed and agreed, by their Sorceries, and Inchauntementes, to dispatche priuilie one Lanckforde a Fermour, dwellyng in Winde∣sore by the Thames side, and that they murde∣red
hym accordinglie.
9 Thei also by their deuillishe arte, killed one Maister Gallis, who in times paste, had been Maior of Windesore.

10 The like thei practized againste one of the saied Lanckfordes maides, whom by the m•schevous meanes aboue expressed thei be∣reft of life.

11 Likewise a Butcher named Switcher, escaped not their treacherie, but was by their Witchcrafte brought to his graue.

12 Another Butcher named Mastlyn, was by them handeled in suche sorte, that he consu∣med awaie.

13. The maner of their Inchauntemente, whereby fower of the persones afore named were murdered was thus: Mother Dutten made fower pictures of Redde Waxe, about a spanne long, and three or fower fingers broade for Lanckforde, for his Maide, for Maister Gallis, and for Switcher, and the saied Mo∣ther Dutten, by their counsaile and consente,

did sticke an Hauthorne pricke, against the left sides of the breastes of the Images, directly there where thei thought the hartes of the per∣sones to bee sette, whom the same pictures did represente, and thereupon within shorte space, the saied fower persones, beeyng sodainely ta∣ken, died.
14 As for Mastlyn the fifte man, she confes∣seth that he was bewitched, but howe or whe∣ther he dyed or no she vttreth not.

15 Further the same Elizabeth saieth, that her self did kill one Saddocke with a clappe on the shoulder, for not keepyng his promisse for an old Cloke, to make her a Saffegarde, who presently wente home and died.

16 Further she saieth, that she and euery of them▪ did suer speake one Humfrey Ho•ie and his wife, and one Richarde Milles, and one Ihon Mathynglise, that thei laye sicke in a straunge order a long tyme, but thei were reco∣uered againe.

17 Further she saieth, that mother Deuell did ouer speake one Wylliam Foster a Fi∣sher,

and one Willies wife a Baker.
18 Further she saieth, that mother Dutten did giue one Picture, but she knoweth not whe∣ther it was of a manne, or of a woman, and the man that had it of her, she thinketh to be deade, but she knoweth not his name.

19 Further she saieth, that one George Whittyng, seruaunte to Matthewe Glouer of Eaton, had one Picture of her self for one Fo∣ster, for that the saied George and Foster fell out at variaunce, and the Picture was made in mother Dottens house, and that mother Dut∣ten, Mother Deuell, and her self were at the makyng, and that Mother Deuell did saie too her Buime, or euill Spirite, Plague hym, and spare hym not, and she did thruste a Hauthorne pricke against the harte of hym, and so he laye at the poinct of death a long tyme, but Mother Dutten recouered hym againe.

20 And in the ende, thei killed a Cowe of his by their Witchcrafte.

21 And further she saieth, that thei and euery of them, if any had angred them, thei would go


to their Spirites and saie, suche a one hath an∣gred me, goe dooe them this mischief, and for their hire, would giue them a droppe of their owne blood, and presently the partie was pla∣gued by some lamentable casualtie.
22 Elizabeth Stile also confesseth, that she her self hath gone to old Windsor, to the bedde makers there, to begge a messe of Milke, which she could not haue, for that the maide was then Milkyng, but her Ratte had proui∣ded for her bothe Milke and Creame, againste her commyng home.

23 Elizabeth Stile touched with more re∣morse saieth, that Mother Dutten, & Mother Deuell, were her firste intisers to follie, and that she and euery of them, did meete somety∣mes in maister Dodges Pittes, and somtyme aboute a leuen of the Clocke in the night at the Pounde, and that Mother Dutten, and Mo∣ther Deuell did perswade her, to dooe as thei had doen, in forsakyng God and his woorkes, and giuyng her self to the Deuill.

24 Elizabeth Stile confesseth, her self often tymes to haue gon to Father Rosimond house

where she founde hym sittyng in a Wood, not farre from thence, vnder the bodie of a Tree, sometymes in the shape of an Ape, and other∣whiles like an Horse. She also confesseth her self to haue tourned a childes hande in Winde∣sor cleane backwardes, whiche was retourned to the right place by Mother Dutten.
25 Further she saieth, that she will stande vnto her death, to all and euery Article before rehearsed: and that father Rosimond can trans∣forme hym self into the likenesse of an Ape, or a Horse, and that he can helpe any manne so be∣witched to his health againe, as well as to be∣witche.

26 Further she saieth, that mother Seidre dwelling in the Almes house, was the maistres Witche of all the reste, and she is now deade.

27 Further she saieth, that if she had bin so disposed, fower or fiue, or more of the best men in Windsor, should not haue brought her to the Gaile, but that she came of her owne accorde, and by the waie as she came with Ihō Brome who brought her to the Gaile, her Bunne or Familier came to her in the likenesse of a black

Catte, and would haue had her awaie, but she banished hym, hopyng for fauour.
Memorandum, that besides the examina∣tion, and confession aforesaid, there was giuen in euidence, viua voce, at the Arraignement of the said Witches, one speciall matter by an O∣stler of Windsore, who affirmed vpon his othe that the said Mother Stile vsing to come to his Maisters house, had often tymes reliefe giuen her by hym. And on a time not long sithens, she commyng to his Maisters house, when there was little left to be giuen her, for that she came somewhat late, yet he giuyng her also some∣what at that tyme, she therewith not contented went her waies in some anger, and as it semed offended with the saied Ostler, for that she had no better Almes, and by the sequell, so it appe∣red. For not long after, he had a greate ache in his limmes, that he was not able to take any reste, nor to doe any labour, and hauyng sought many meanes for remedie thereof, could finde none, at the laste he wente to a Wiseman, na∣med Father Rosimonde, alias Osborne, who told hym that he was bewitched, and that there was many ill women in Windsore, and asked hym whom he did mistrust, and the saied Oste∣ler aunswered one Mother Stile, one of the

Witches aforesaied: well saied the Wiseman, if you can meete her, and all to scratche her, so that you drawe blood of her, you shall presently mende. And the saied Osteler vpon his othe de∣clared, that he watchyng her on a tyme, did all too scratche her by the face, that he made the blood come after, & presently his paine went a∣waie, so that he hath bin no more greued sithēs.
Moreouer, on a tyme a mannes Soonne of Windsor, commyng to fetche water at a welle whiche was by the doore of the saied Mother Stile, and by chaunce hurlyng a s•one vppon her house, she was there withall muche gree∣ued and saied, she would bee euen with hym, and tooke his Pitcher whiche he had brought from hym: the boye goyng home wardes, hap∣pened to meete with his father, and tolde hym how that Mother Stile had taken awaye his Pitcher from hym, well saied his Father, you haue doen her some vnhappines, come on with me, and I will goe speake with her. And so the boye goyng with his Father towardes her house, did sodainly crie out: O my hande my hande, his father there withall lookyng backe, and seeyng his Soonnes hande to tourne, and wende backwardes, laied holde therevpon, but he was not able to staye the tournyng thereof,

besides a neighbour of his beeyng in his com∣panie at that tyme, did also laye holde thereon, and notwithstandyng bothe their strengthes, the childes hande did tourne backwardes, and the palme thereof did stande, where the backe did, to the greeuous torment of the saied childe, and vexation of his Father: The whiche hande was tourned againe to his right place, either by the saied father Rosimond, or the saied Mo∣ther Deuell.
Also this is not to be forgotten, that the said Mother Stile, beeyng at the tyme of her ap∣prehension▪ so well in healthe of bodie and lim∣mes, that she was able, and did goe on foote, from Windsor vnto Readyng vnto the Gaile, whiche are twelue miles distaunt. Shortly af∣ter that she had made the aforesaied confession, the other Witches were apprehended, and were brought to the said Gaile, the said Mother Deuell did so bewitche her and others (as she confessed vnto the Iailer) with her Enchaunt∣mentes, that the vse of all her simmes and sen∣ses, were taken quite from her, and her Toes did rotte of her feete, and she was laied vppon a Barrowe, as a moste vglie creature to be∣holde, and so brought before the Iudges, at suche tyme as she was arraigned.

    Finis.