A True Relation of the Arraignment of Thirty Witches at Chenssord in Essex, before Iudge Coniers, fourteene whereof were hanged on Friday last, Iuly 25, 1645. there being at this time a hundred more in severall prissons in Suffolke and Essex.

Setting forth the Confessions of the prinicpall of them. 

Also showing how the Divell had carnall copulation with REbecca West, a young maid, daughter to one Anne West.

And how they bewitched Men, Women, Children, and Cattel to death: with many other strange things, the like was never heard of before.

The names of those that were executed.
Mrs. Ways, a Ministers Wife
Anne West
Mother Benefield
Mother Goodwin
Jane Browne
Mother Forman
Rachel Flower
Mary Greene
Mary Foster
Ione Brigs
Mother Miller
Mother Clarke
Frances Iones
Mary Rhodes

Printed at London by I.H.

The Confession of Rebecca VVest, daughter to Anne WEst of Colchester in Essex.

The said REbecca confessed at the Barre, that about Shrovetide last her mother bad her make haste of her worke, for she must goe along with her before Sunne downe: and as they were going over the fields, her mother gave her a great charge never to speake of wahat shee could heare or see, and she faithfully promised to keep counsell. When she came ot the house of meeting there were five Witches more; the two chiefe were Mother Benefield and Mother Goodwin; this Mother Goodwin pulled out a Booke, and after their manner they prayed out of it, and presently their severall Impes appeared in severall shapes: six whereof appeared in the shapes of Kitnens about a weeke old in Mother Benefield's lap, and after she had kissed them, she said unto Rebecca that those were all her children which she had by as handsome a man as any was in England. Then they commanded their Spirits come to kill such a mans Horse, some a cow, some a Chi'de, etc. Then Mother Benefield called to mother West and asked if she were sure that her daugther REbecca would keep counsell, or else tshe might seeke all their blood. She answered, Rebecca had promised. They all replyed, if she ever did spake of it that she should suffer more tortures and paines on earth, then the paiens of hell. Presently mother Benefield said, for more certainty let her take out Covenant and Oath as we have already done. Then they taught her waht to say, the summe where of was to deny God and her SAviour Iesus Crhist, to renounce all promises of his blessings, and the merits of his bitter death and passion, to beleeve as they did, and to serve and obey as they did. And the said Rebecca confessed that so soone as she had done thus, the Divel in the shsape of a little blacke dog leaped into her lap, & kissed her three times, but she felt them very cold. Shortly after, when she was going to bed, the Divel appeared unto her againe in the shape of a handsome yung man, saying that he came ot marry her. The manner was thus: he took her by the hand, and leading her about the roome, said, I take thee Rebecca to be my wife, and do promise to by they loving husband til death, defending thee from all harmes; then he told her what shee must say, hwereupon she took him by the hand and said, I Rebecca take thee to be my husband, and doe promise to be an obedient wife till death, faithfully to performe and observe all they commands; and the first whereof was that she should deny and renounce as aforesaid. And being asked by the Iudge whether she ever had carnall copulation with the Divel, she confessed that she had. And being asked divers questions by a Gentleman that did speake several times with her before and afterward (giving her godly and comfortable instructions) she affirmed that so soon as one of the Witches was is prison, she was very desrious to confesse all she knew, which accordingly she did, whereupon the rest were apprehended and sent unto the Gaole. She further affirmed, that when she was going to the Grand Inquest with one mother Miller (indicted for a Witch) she told mother Miller that she would confesse nothing, if the pulled her to pieces with pincers: and being asked the reason by the Gentleman, she said she found her selfe in such extremeity of torture and amazement, that she would not endure it againe for the world: and when she looked upon the ground shee saw her selfe encompssed in flames of fire: and presently the Grand Inquest called for her, where they admit but one at a time, and so soone as she was thus separated from this mother Miller, the tortures and the flames beganne to cease: whereupon she then confessed all shee ever knew, and said that so soone as her confession was fully ended, she found her conscience so tagiued and disburdened of all her torture, that she thought her selfe the happiest creature in the world: withall affirming that the Divel can take any shape, and speak plaine English.

Another witch sent her maid to a neighbours house for a handfull of herbes, who meeting iwht her sweetheart staid an houre by the way, saying she should bee halfe hanged for staying so long: whereupon he told her that in such a place in their owne garden there grew the same herbes, so it was but oging over the pale and her journey was ended; which she did, and pleased her mistris well for her long stay, by bringing those herbes. At night her mistris bade her go up to bed first, which made her mistrust something; whereupon she peeked between the boards and observed her mistris to cut the herbes in small peeces, strewing them about the room: the next morning her husband rising betimes found twelve or fourteene great Hogs, being all his owne, dead in the yard, and so for his Sheepe all his other Cattell, and telling his wife how they were undone, she replyed, hath the queane served me thus? She shall suffer for it. Then he examined the maid, and both gave evidence. This was at Ipswich in Suffolke.

The evidnece of Mr. Long a Minister neere Cholchester in Essex.

First, that as he was riding on the way, the hsape of a red dog passed by him, at which his blood did rise; and being passed a small distance, turned his face, his eyes appearing nor like the eyes of any creature, his horse presently started, and never lefting kicking and flinging untill he threw him downe, but had no hurt. An old woman in the Towne called goodwife Clarke being mistrusted and examined before Sir Thomas Boes, confessed that she sent forth this spirit, with command to make the horse throw Mr. Long and breake his neck: and being demanded by Sir Thomas Boes what was the reason the Spirit did not performe her commands, she answered because the power of God was above the power of the Divel. But the horse did pine to death for his punishment.

The evidence of said Mr. Long.

He said that one morning as he was walking abroad, a poore woman being of his own Parish spake kindly to him, but his answer was that he ahd a long time a good opinion of her, although he ever accounted her sister, an ill liver, and little better than those that are accounted Witches, but now he strongly beleeved that her sister had made her as bad as herselfe; this much trouble the old woman, and she would not leave following and perswading the said mr. Long to bee of his former good opinion, professing her own innocence of any ill of such nature, or any coompact with such evil Spirit what soever, but finding him not satisfied with any thing she had said, she assured him she would give him an evidence undenyable, whereupon she lifted up both her hands toward heaven, calling God to witness, and desired that he would shew a present Iudgment upon her if she were not onnocent and cleare: now Mr. Long affirmed upon his oath that these words were no sooner out of her mouth, but she was strucke to the ground upon her back before his face, where she did lye in a most lamentable condition, trembling and crying; he took her up and carried her into an Alehouse hard by, where she did lie in this extremitie two dayes, and that so soone as she came ot herselfe he gave her the best comfort he could, shewing how mercifull God had beene to her in sparing her life, giving her time of repentance, the first step whereof must be her confession and contrition, whereupon she confessed that she had done much mischief, and that she had compacted with the Devill, that hee usually sucked her and appeared unto her in the shape of a Squirrell.

These aforesaid Witches have confessed that they did raise the great windes in March last, and caused a Hoy to be cast away, wherein were many passengers.

When these witches came ifrst into the Goale at Colchester, the Goaler lost his meat often, and mistrusting that the Witches had got it, upon a time bought a good shoulder of Mutton, and said hee would looke to the dressing of it himselfe, but when it was ready the Witches had got it, and all the while the Witches were at supper with it, the Goaler instead of Mutton was eating Hogs-wash.

After this the Gaoler desrious to see more of their feats, intreated some of them to shew him a little of their cunning, thinking to make himselfe merry for the losse of his meat, whereupon one of the Witches bid him goe fetch her foure pewter dishes wherein never water came; straightway went the Gaoler to a Pewterer and got 4 new dishes, and afore he brought them to the Witch he wet one of them, contrary to the Witches direction, nevertheless as soone as the Witch had them, she put her hands and feet into the foure dishes, and upon an instant was lifted into the ayre with three dishes taht were dry, the fourth falling off, and by good chance was found in a meadow about halfe a mile off, and brought back to Prison.
Finis.