News from Maidstone: or, a true Narrative of the Proceedings at Kent-Assizes, Begun there on Munday the 11th and ending Friday the 14ths of this instant March 1678, giving an exact realtion of the Tryals and Condemnation of Four Notorious House-Breakers. 

And of Two women for Murder: One for throwing Bastard-Childe out of the window at Arlington-Castle; the other a woman of Fourscore ad two years of age, for murdering her Sons Bastard-child.

Likewise the full account of the Tryal of a woman for Witchcraft; and of a man for firing his Neighbours house. 

Also the Tryals and Condemnation of sevearl other Notorious Malefactors for Felonies and Burglaries. with the number how many were Condemn'd, etc. With allowance. 

London: Printed for C.M. 1678

The next was a remarkable Tryal, and much to be reagrded in this Age of Sadducism, wherein so many, as apreparative to Atheism, deny the existence of Evil Spirits, or at least their Confederacies and Contracts with mortals. a Woman being indicted for Witchcraft, the fact laid to her charge was, that she had bewitched a young maiden that had given her some small affront. And to make this presence good, there was produced a piont of Blood pull of Nails and crooked Pins bow'd into strange forms; all which the Witnesses attested the Maid had cast up by a Vomit: Some threatning words of the Prisoners were also alleadged, and the Outcries of the person afflicted, calling upon her in the height of her fits, and extraodinary Ravings when she was brought into her pretence. Another woman said, she verily believed she had bewitcht no less than three of her Husbands; the first it seems died strangely; the second going out, the now Prisoner said he should be drownd and never come home again, which happen'd accordingly; and the third strucken suddenly, has for some time even to this day, lost most part of his understanding and senses. All this and some other things of like kind were suggested, but seem'd rather to be bottom'd on Conceit than judgment or certain knowledge; and the Crime being in its nature so abstruse, difficiult, and apt to be mistaken, on which neither Philosophers nor Divines are yet sufficiently agreed, at least as to the manner of their Operations, 'twas thought fit to continue her in Jail till a further scrtuiny of the matter might be made, before she should be acquitted from the charge, or condemned for so black a Crime.